h1. wysihtml5 community wiki

h2. Introduction

wysihtml5 is an open source rich text editor based on HTML5 technology and the progressive-enhancement approach.
It uses a sophisticated security concept and aims to generate fully valid HTML5 markup by preventing unmaintainable tag soups and inline styles.

h2. Getting Started

The "Getting Started Guide":https://github.com/xing/wysihtml5/wiki/Getting-Started explains how to integrate wysihtml5 easily into your website.

h2. Configuration

Find a list of all wysihtml5 configuration options "here":https://github.com/xing/wysihtml5/wiki/Configuration.

h2. Commands

wysihtml5 supports a variety of formatting commands. A full documentation can be found "here":https://github.com/xing/wysihtml5/wiki/Supported-Commands.

h2. Events

You can hook into wyishtml5's "custom events":https://github.com/xing/wysihtml5/wiki/Events and build custom functionality on top of it.

h2. Progressive Enhancement

"Step by step explanation":https://github.com/xing/wysihtml5/wiki/Progressive-Enhancement on how the editor turns a textarea into a rich text editing interface.


h2. Security

Please take a few minutes and read our notes concerning "wysihtml5 and its security concept":https://github.com/xing/wysihtml5/wiki/Security.

h2. Hidden Gems

wysihtml5 offers some neat extras. Discover them "here":https://github.com/xing/wysihtml5/wiki/Neat-Extras.

h2. Demos

Check the "simple":http://xing.github.com/wysihtml5/examples/simple.html and "advanced":http://xing.github.com/wysihtml5/examples/advanced.html demos. Also if you haven't already, check out the "editable github page":http://xing.github.com/wysihtml5.

h2. Plugins

Find a list of projects using wysihtml5 "here":https://github.com/xing/wysihtml5/wiki/Plugins.

h2. Change Log

The official change log can always be found "here":https://github.com/xing/wysihtml5/blob/master/CHANGELOG.textile.

h2. Contribute

Learn how to "compile, test and contribute":https://github.com/xing/wysihtml5/wiki/Contribute your changes to wysihtml5.